nrf_desktop migration guide cs3 - ncs2.7 (#1)
zycz/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/nRF54H20_migration_2.7/migration_guide_2.4.99-cs3_to_2.7_application.rst

     The previously used SOC1-based board files have been removed.

nRF Desktop
-----------

> The following changes have to be made for :ref:`nrf_desktop` application to work in the same way as in the release v2.4.99-cs3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to make the following changes for the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application to work in the same way as in the release v2.4.99-cs3.
```

> * Due to the migration to the new hardware model, commonly referred as "hardware model v2", the board target of the nRF54H20 DK has changed to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Due to the migration to the new hardware model, commonly referred as "hardware model v2", the board target of the nRF54H20 DK has changed to ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp``.
```

>   Building command for application has changed and it is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The build command for the application has changed and it is now:
```

>   .. code-block:: console
> 
>     west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. code-block:: console

     west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp
```

> * Radio core now uses the :ref:`ipc_radio` application from ``sdk-nrf`` instead of the Bluetooth HCI RPMsg sample from ``sdk-zephyr``.

Reviewer: Link to the Zephyr BT sample? Is it this one https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/zephyr/samples/bluetooth/hci_ipc/README.html?

Author: Yes, how to link it?

Reviewer: :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample`

>   Due to that radio core now uses the :ref:`ipc_radio` application from ``sdk-nrf`` instead of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample` sample from ``sdk-zephyr``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Due to this, the radio core now uses the :ref:`ipc_radio` application from ``sdk-nrf`` instead of the :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-hci-ipc-sample` sample from ``sdk-zephyr``.
```

> * Due to transition to sysbuild, configuration enabling radio core image has been moved from the main application image configuration to the sysbuild configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Due to transition to sysbuild, the configuration enabling the radio core image has been moved from the main application image configuration to the sysbuild configuration.
```

  See the following sysbuild Kconfig options related to the radio core image configuration:

    * ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_DEFAULT_IPC_RADIO``
    * ``SB_CONFIG_NETCORE_IPC_RADIO_BT_HCI_IPC``

> * Application uses the default memory map based on Zephyr board files and no longer defines an application-specific memory map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The application uses the default memory map based on Zephyr board files and no longer defines an application-specific memory map.
```

Author: Removed sentence as it is to nrf_desktop specific. Disused offline with Francesco

> * Module :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` has been merged with :file:`dfu_mcumgr.c`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` module has been merged with :file:`dfu_mcumgr.c`.
```

>   The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_SUIT_ENABLE`` Kconfig option had been removed and replaced by :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT`.

Reviewer 2: nRF Desktop Kconfig option references are still wrong.

> * The :file:`prj_suit_smp.conf` configuration for nRF54H20 DK has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The :file:`prj_suit_smp.conf` configuration for the nRF54H20 DK has been removed.
```

Author: Removed sentence as it is to nrf_desktop specific. Disused offline with Francesco

>   Now DFU over SMP is enabled by default in the ``debug`` and ``release`` configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  DFU over SMP is now enabled by default in the ``debug`` and ``release`` configurations.
```

Author: Removed sentence as it is to nrf_desktop specific. Disused offline with Francesco

>   The :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` is no longer needed as in |NCS| v2.7 the dfu_mcumgr module can be properly adapted to support the SUIT DFU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` file is no longer needed as in the |NCS| v2.7.0 the :ref: `nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr` module can be properly adapted to support the SUIT DFU.
```

> * Moved to using USB-next new stack for USB support.

Reviewer 2: USB-next stack

>   New kconfig option :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` has been added to enable it.

Reviewer 2: to enable it in nRF Desktop application

>   New kconfig option :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>` has been added to enable it in nRF Desktop application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A new kconfig option :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT <config_desktop_app_options>` has been added to enable it in nRF Desktop application.
```

>   USB HID-class instance is now configured through a separate DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device``.

Reviewer 2: An USB HID-class insance ...

>   New USB next stack has been integrated into the nRF Desktop application and can be enabled using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  New USB next stack has been integrated into the nRF Desktop application and you can enable it using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` Kconfig option.
```

>   See usb_state documentation on how to integrate USB-next stack: :ref:`nrf_desktop_usb_state`.

Reviewer 2: See :ref:`nrf_desktop_usb_state` documentation for details related to USB-next stack integration

>   An USB HID-class instance is now configured through a separate DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A USB HID-class instance is now configured through a separate DTS node compatible with ``zephyr,hid-device``.
```

> * Align FLASH writes in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` to FLASH write block size of the non-volatile memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Align flash writes in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` to the flash write block size of the non-volatile memory.
```

>   It's needed as :ref:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_MRAM_ONE_BYTE_WRITE_ACCESS <config_desktop_app_options>` is no longer available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is needed because the :ref:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_MRAM_ONE_BYTE_WRITE_ACCESS <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option is no longer available.
```

>   This is needed because the :ref:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_MRAM_ONE_BYTE_WRITE_ACCESS <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option is no longer available and MRAMC requiers writes of the size of the whole MRAM word to the MRAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is needed because the :ref:`CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_MRAM_ONE_BYTE_WRITE_ACCESS <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option is no longer available and MRAMC requires writes to the MRAM.
  The size must be equal to the full MRAM word.
```

     The previously used SOC1-based board files have been removed.

> NRF Desktop

Reviewer 3: nRF Desktop?

-----------

> The following changes have to be made for nrf_desktop application to work in the same way as in the release v2.4.99-cs3 .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following changes have to be made for :ref:`nrf_desktop` application to work in the same way as in the release v2.4.99-cs3 .
```

> * Because of hardware model v2 the building command for application has changed and it is now:

Reviewer 3: maybe something like that to show that only the `<board>` part has changed?
```
Due to the migration to the new hardware model, commonly referred as "hardware model v2", the board target of the nRF54H20 DK has changed to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp``.
```

  .. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

> * For radio core image hci_rpmsg was removed and replaced with ipc_radio.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Radio core now uses the :ref:`ipc_radio` application from ``sdk-nrf`` instead of the Bluetooth HCI IPC sample from ``sdk-zephyr``.
```

> * Sample uses default memory map.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Application uses the default memory map.
```

> * Module :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` had been merged to :file:`dfu_mcumgr.c`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Module :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` has been merged with :file:`dfu_mcumgr.c`.
```

>   Kconfig option ``DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_SUIT_ENABLE`` had been removed and replaced by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_SUIT_ENABLE`` Kconfig option had been removed and replaced by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT`.
```

> * :file:`smp.conf` configuration for nrf54h20 had been removed as all smp features are now by default present in debbug and release configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The :file:`prj_suit_smp.conf` configuration for nRF54H20 DK has been removed.
  Now DFU over SMP is enabled by default in the ``debug`` and ``release`` configurations.
```

* Moved to using USB-next new stack for USB support.
  New kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` has been added to enable it.
  See commits how to integrate it to nrf_desktop application:

    * https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/3c1a3ec4b7e9df3aa70333c761655ea7bb38bc8e
    * https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/290d421ee505e6f57decd48a5aea78f238060865
    * https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/c57fc2d78f87345929d6395bfcf40f83ff9b33b5

>     * https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/16492f54dbe6d89f37fcd499bf34346118edb327

Reviewer 3: Do we need those commit list here? 
It is not "how to integrate it" but "how it has been integrated".
Won't the information that the USB High-Speed is only available on the USB next stack thus needed for nRF54H be enough?

Author: Question for rest should we place commits here?

Reviewer 3: let's wait for others input then.
If commits won't be necessary then consider replacing it with something like:
```
* The USB High-Speed is supported only in the USB next stack.
  New USB next stack has been integrated into the nRF Desktop application and can be enabled using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` Kconfig option.
  It is now enabled by default in the nRF54H20 DK configurations.
```

> * Radio core configuration files have been moved from :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp/child_image/hci_rpmsg` to :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpurad` directory.

Reviewer 3: Isn't it related to sysbuild? Also we migrated to the ipc_radio, and this sentence for me suggests that we have hci_rpmsg configs still in the app.

Author: Will place it near information that we remove hci_rpmsg. Yes it is sysbuild info but still I think it is worth placing it here to show how it impacts this application

Reviewer 3: So maybe:
```
* Due to the migration to sysbuild, radio core image configuration files have been moved from the :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp/child_image` to :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpurad/images` directory.
```

* Align FLASH writes in dfu application module to FLASH write block of non-volatile memory.

>   See commit: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/becbed095fa9f732d2e3a4b21a65fd8f36694601

Reviewer 3: Do we need commit here? 
It is just an improvement of nRF Desktop in my opinion, is it worth to mention it here?
```suggestion
* Align FLASH writes in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` to FLASH write block size of the non-volatile memory.
  See commit: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/becbed095fa9f732d2e3a4b21a65fd8f36694601
```

Author: same as above regarding keeping commits

Reviewer 3: 1. Commits -> ok, let's wait for others input.
2. Note itself -> Do we even need that note ("It is just an improvement of nRF Desktop IMO")

* Due to transition to sysbuild build system options regarding usage of radio core have been moved from prj.conf to sysbuild.conf.

>   NRF Desktop nRF54H20 significant options which are set in sysbuild.conf:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Due to transition to sysbuild, configuration of radio core image has been moved from the main application configuration to the sysbuild configuration.
  See the following sysbuild Kconfig options related to the radio core image configuration:
```

     The previously used SOC1-based board files have been removed.

nRF Desktop
-----------

The following changes have to be made for :ref:`nrf_desktop` application to work in the same way as in the release v2.4.99-cs3.

* Due to the migration to the new hardware model, commonly referred as "hardware model v2", the board target of the nRF54H20 DK has changed to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp``.
  Building command for application has changed and it is now:

  .. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

> * Radio core now uses the :ref:`ipc_radio` application from ``sdk-nrf`` instead of the Bluetooth HCI IPC sample from ``sdk-zephyr``.

Reviewer 2: Looking at configurations it used to use `HCI RPMsg`, right?

> * Radio core configuration files have been moved from :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp/child_image/hci_rpmsg` to :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpurad` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```
Radio core image configuration files ..... to :file:`configuration/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpurad/images/ipc_radio` 
```

> * Due to transition to sysbuild, configuration of radio core image has been moved from the main application configuration to the sysbuild configuration.

Reviewer 2: configuration enabling radio core image

Reviewer 2: main application image configuration

  See the following sysbuild Kconfig options related to the radio core image configuration:

    * ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_DEFAULT_IPC_RADIO``

>     * ``SB_CONFIG_NETCORE_IPC_RADIO_BT_HCI_IPC``

Reviewer 2: Don't we need an empty line here?

> * Application uses the default memory map.

Reviewer 2: Consider explicitly mentioning that it no longer defines an application-specific memory map.

* Module :file:`dfu_mcumgr_suit.c` has been merged with :file:`dfu_mcumgr.c`.

>   The ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_SUIT_ENABLE`` Kconfig option had been removed and replaced by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT`.

Reviewer 2: Fix references to nRF Desktop specific Kconfigs - use the following syntax:
```
:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_FN_KEYS_SWITCH <config_desktop_app_options>`
```

* The :file:`prj_suit_smp.conf` configuration for nRF54H20 DK has been removed.
  Now DFU over SMP is enabled by default in the ``debug`` and ``release`` configurations.
* Moved to using USB-next new stack for USB support.

>   New kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_STACK_NEXT` has been added to enable it.

Reviewer 2: Please also inform that USB HID configuration is different now (it was moved to DTS)

>   See commits "how it has been integrated to nrf_desktop application:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could link to USB state module documentation here instead of adding links to commits?

* Align FLASH writes in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` to FLASH write block size of the non-volatile memory.
  See commit: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/becbed095fa9f732d2e3a4b21a65fd8f36694601

> * Due to transition to sysbuild, configuration of radio core image has been moved from the main application configuration to the sysbuild configuration.

Reviewer 3: please move it before `* Application uses the default memory map.` to group radio core related stuff

    * https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/commit/16492f54dbe6d89f37fcd499bf34346118edb327

> * Align FLASH writes in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu` to FLASH write block size of the non-volatile memory.

Reviewer 2: Can we inform that it's needed because `CONFIG_SOC_FLASH_NRF_MRAM_ONE_BYTE_WRITE_ACCESS` is no longer available?
